When defining the construct of writing ability, in addition to defining it in terms of the process and the product of writing or in terms of language knowledge and strategic competence, an important aspect to consider is the fact that most writing takes place in digital environments these days. Consequently, when defining the construct of writing ability, it is important to consider the technology that is appropriate within the context and purpose of the assessment . As linguistic tools are inevitably a crucial part of writing in the digital age, it may be timely to consider them when understanding one’s writing ability and include these tools as part of the assessment of writing ability. In addition to issues regarding how writing ability is defined, researchers have expressed practical concerns of L2 students’ use of spelling tool and reference tool in an assessment context. O’Regan argues that a spelling tool is generally intended for native speakers of a language who make accidental typographical errors. O’Regan states that since L2 learners may make spelling errors due to their insufficient command of the language, it is inappropriate to allow the use of a spelling tool when assessing L2 learners. Another concern that is discussed often is how students may focus only on surface-level revisions when provided with a spelling tool . Rather than thinking through how the writing can be revised, students may tend to make surface-level revisions when provided with a spelling tool. Additionally, Barnes et al. gathered opinions from 100 U.K. teachers on the use of bilingual dictionaries in exams in foreign languages. The teachers were generally in agreement that using dictionaries is relevant and authentic. However, some teachers questioned the use of dictionaries in exams for several reasons: it may be problematic for lower-level students; it is an additional skill that needs to be learned; it could lead students to attempt to translate word for word; and having such access to a dictionary may not be assessing true language abilities. Despite these concerns with regard to test-takers’ use of linguistic tools in assessment contexts, there has been attempts in recent years to better understand the role of linguistic tools in L2 students’ writing, particularly the extent to which having access to a linguistic tool affects students’ writing performance. In a classroom assessment context, Shin et al. examined the extent to which L2 students’ use of linguistic tools affects their writing performance measured in terms of language use, organization, content, and task completion. Students used an online writing tool that included a concordancer, an English-English dictionary, an English-Korean dictionary, and a collocation and usage dictionary. They found that the test-takers who had access to these tools received a higher score across the four components of the rubric than those who did not have access to the linguistic tools. Focusing solely on the spelling tool, Choi and Cho compared the length of writing and the number of spelling errors in students’ written responses across those who used the spelling tool, who were allowed to use the tool but opted not to do so, and who were not allowed to use the tool. They found that generally, those who used the spelling tool wrote less and had fewer spelling errors in their writing than those who did not use the spelling tool. East investigated test-takers’ writing performance comparing groups of students who wrote their responses with or without a dictionary. Proficiency level was found to be associated with a significant difference in scores. However, overall, no statistically significant difference in test-takers’ scores was found with or without the access to a dictionary. Regardless, the results varied for different proficiency levels. Having access to a dictionary improved the lower intermediate students’ scores to a small extent, made no difference for the intermediate and upper intermediate level students, and lowered the score for the advanced students. In addition to focusing on students’ writing performance, there have been some attempts to explore the actual usage of the tool while writing. In order to understand the extent to which test-takers were able to appropriately use a dictionary in a writing test, East explored test-takers’ use of a dictionary while taking a German writing exam. Test-takers were asked to recall why they used the dictionary and to highlight or underline the words they looked up. East found that test-takers mainly used the dictionary to find the meanings of a German word in English or find the appropriate German word for an English word . However, he also found that test-takers refer to the dictionary to check for spelling and grammar . Thus, the purpose of using a dictionary was not solely to check the lexical meaning of the language but to get assistance with lexical and morphosyntactic forms of the language. Unlike East’s approach of asking test-takers to recall why they used the dictionary.